In this update, we're going to talk about how we can make good use of our time during
the pandemic, but first, we'd like to share a few updates.
We're sad to report that as of December 10th, we have lost 25,658 brothers and sisters
to COVID-19.
Our prayers are certainly with all who have lost loved ones.
Recently, the new Omicron variant has received a lot of news coverage.
At this point, there are still many unknowns.
Brothers and sisters, we don't need to panic.
Keep following the same basic precautions that have worked well, wearing masks, physical
distancing, frequently washing our hands and getting vaccinated, if possible.
In the 2021 governing body, update number seven, Brother Loish mentioned that over 80 percent
of the worldwide Bethel family was vaccinated.
We are glad to inform you that now, over 99 percent of our worldwide Bethel family
is vaccinated.
And so are over 95 percent of our special full-time servants in the field.
Many of our brothers and sisters have had good results from being vaccinated.
For example, in some parts of Bulgaria, the local clergy say that vaccines are poison
from the devil.
So there's much pressure in the community not to get vaccinated.
Despite this, one sister in her husband watched the governing body updates and made their
personal decision to get vaccinated.
Later the sister's employer called her and said that in order to comply with government
regulations, she couldn't return to work if she had not been vaccinated.
How surprised the manager was to learn that the sister was already vaccinated.
In fact, she was the only employee who was vaccinated.
Everyone else had to be laid off.
The manager asked our sister if she had any vaccinated friends who could replace the
employees who had been fired.
The manager then called other witnesses that she knew to see if they had any vaccinated
friends who needed employment.
That evening all the positions were nearly filled.
The head of staff asked our sisters, how do you know so many vaccinated women a fine
witness was given?
In the end, 14 sisters and one Bible student were employed because they followed the good
guidance and Bible principles that have been shared in our various governing body updates.
Now, let's get back to our topic of putting our time to good use during the pandemic.
It's been exciting to hear how many of you have reached out to Pioneer, started new
study projects, and refined your telephone and letter writing skills.
That is time well spent.
In this month's update, we will discuss two additional ways we can use our time wisely.
Learning in active ones and improving our reading and writing skills.
It has been wonderful to see so many of our brothers and sisters who were in active
begin associating with us again during the pandemic.
If that describes you, please know that the governing body warmly welcomes you back.
Imagine the joy that Jehovah and Jesus and all the angels in heaven have experienced
at seeing you return.
But what about those who have not yet returned?
They might feel like the Psalmist has recorded at Psalm 119, verse 176.
There we read, I have strayed like a lost sheep, search for your servant, for I have not
forgotten your commandments.
Right now, some in active ones may be pranked Jehovah saying, search for me.
I need help to come back.
They haven't forgotten Jehovah.
But for various reasons, they haven't been able to come back on their own.
How does Jehovah feel about such ones?
Psalm 34 verses 15 and 16 says, I myself will feed my sheep.
The lost one I will search for, the stray I will bring back, the injured I will bandage
in the week I will strengthen.
Can Jehovah use you to find his lost sheep?
Absolutely.
Many of you have reached out to in active ones.
In the following video, notice how publishers took the initiative to help others return
to Jehovah.
I didn't know what my brother was ever going to do about the truth.
As a teenager, he was a publisher in the congregation.
By the time he was 16, he sadly decided to leave home and he then no longer served Jehovah.
But then when we came back to Seattle and settled down, then we had more contact with him.
My wife and I had been providing meals for him because his wife had a brain tumor, but
the beautiful thing is our congregation.
They started taking in meals when my brother's wife was hospitalized, but they even assisted
at the hospital to visit him and give him encouragement.
And that had a big impact upon him.
He could see the closeness of the congregation.
And I think that built a desire that he would really like to do more.
When my brother went to the kingdom hall, he was only able to do that for two weeks and
then COVID struck, but an elder talked to him the first time he went to the kingdom hall
and they exchanged phone numbers.
And so they were able to communicate and that elder helped study him up in the Zoom and
he was able to attend the meetings and he went to all the meetings.
And then I encouraged him to have a personal study and he said, well, I'm doing my study.
Of all things, it was a terminology.
He didn't know about having a personal Bible study with someone.
So then he said some more encouragement from a family friend that found out that he was
coming to meetings and then he started up to have his own Bible study.
And that's when he really started to make progress.
It took 59 years.
Here I had the privilege of actually performing the baptism for my own brother.
At the beginning of the pandemic, we knew that our ministry was going to change.
And so we thought about what to do and we came up with this little project, making a list
of all the inactive people that we could think of, that we'd been in other congregations,
lots of young people and others.
And when we did that list, there was about 40 people on that list.
So we've emailed, we've called, we've texted, and we've written lots of letters.
Some of them we haven't heard anything from, but nobody has rejected our efforts.
I contacted one man who I had met almost 40 years ago.
When I was 19 years old, we reestablished contact.
He began to attend all the meetings on Zoom.
And now we're studying the Bible in the enjoy life forever book.
We contacted one brother who'd been inactive for many years.
Now he attends all the meetings on Zoom.
He has been reactivated and all of this despite some very serious health problems.
Patients and persistence are required when reaching out to these dear ones.
We love them and so we contact some on that list every week.
We're so happy.
Three of the persons that we contacted are now regularly attending the meetings.
Two of them are studying the Bible.
It's really been encouraging for us to see these ones that we love so much return to Jehovah.
And really, if Jehovah is drawing them, they're going to respond.
I'm sure you agree that Jehovah blessed these efforts to reach out to his lost sheep.
What a wonderful way to use our time during the pandemic.
One circuit over here in the United States recently reported that 76 individuals in his
circuit had been reactivated.
That's the equivalent of an entire congregation.
We encourage you to prayerfully think of inactive ones that you might know.
It could be a family member or a friend.
Can you give them a call or send them a letter or a text message?
And if they respond and attend a meeting, make them feel welcome.
We hope that many more lost sheep will return to Jehovah before the end.
Another good use of our time is improving our reading and writing skills.
Reading and writing has always been important for Jehovah's people.
Remember the kings of Israel were told to write out a copy of the law and read from
it all the days of their life.
Jesus was raised by a poor family, yet he was able to read.
Remember the time when he went into the synagogue in Nazareth?
He was able to open the Isaiah scroll, which had no chapters and verses, and locate and
read the correct scripture.
And let's not forget what Paul told Timothy.
Timothy was already an elder, yet Paul said to him, continue applying yourself to public
reading.
So in view of the Bible's emphasis on reading, it is not surprising that God's organization
has a wonderful history of helping people all over the world to learn to read.
Over the past 70 years, Jehovah's Witnesses have taught thousands of people worldwide to
read and write.
For example, in Mexico, we have helped more than 156,000 people to learn to read and write.
We've received awards in several countries for our efforts.
What about today?
It's true that now in many languages, we have technology that enables us to listen to
our publications, but we don't want to be content to rely on audio publications alone.
We want to be able to read and to study the Bible for ourselves and to dig into the wonderful
information provided by the faithful and discreet slave.
Under some other benefits that come from learning to read well, a new article was recently
published on JW.org entitled Why Reading is Important for Children.
This was prepared with you dear parents in mind, but really, reading is something that
all of us should view as important.
Why?
The article explained that reading stirs the imagination.
It builds character and helps us to reason on our problems.
It helps us develop qualities such as patience, self-control, and empathy, and reading promotes
deep thinking.
During the pandemic, some of our brothers have been making good use of their time by learning
to read and write.
Let's hear how they have benefited.
When the coronavirus broke out throughout the country, schools were shut down, and many
parents either couldn't go to work or they had to work from home.
One circuit overseer set a goal to encourage the parents in his circuit to take advantage
of the opportunity to carry on teaching their children to read and write, with the objective
of assisting them to become publishers.
Many parents responded to the encouragement, and this resulted in 37 young ones becoming
proficient in reading and writing.
A sister named Sarah had been trying for some time to learn to read and write.
At home, her husband tried to help her, but they just couldn't find enough time due to
their day-to-day activities and many responsibilities.
Now when the pandemic limited their activities, her husband, who's an elder, took advantage
of the extra time.
He began to help her several times a week to learn to read.
Now she has the joy of reading the Bible and other publications on her own.
She also loves to sing the Kingdom songs using her own songbook.
One Bible student named Comfort, earnestly long to be able to read the Bible.
She became downhearted when the pandemic began and wondered who's going to help her read
now that she couldn't physically attend a literacy class.
A local congregation elder gave her some excellent practical suggestions and he encouraged
her to continue practicing on her own.
With determination and persistence, Comfort applied the suggestions.
She made steady progress and she now reads well.
She conducts five Bible studies.
She's also assisting her own 14-year-old daughter to learn how to read and write.
Comfort was baptized at the 2020 Always Rejoice Regional Convention.
Maria is our 69-year-old sister in Nicaragua.
She's been a regular pioneer for over six years.
She never had formal schooling and so she learned to read as she studied the Bible with
our sisters, but she didn't learn to write.
When the pandemic started, Maria was very discouraged because she didn't know how to use
her cell phone to preach and she didn't know how to write letters.
But some of her fellow pioneers offered to help.
So Maria would dictate her words to her field service partner who would then write the
letter.
Her field service partners would send Maria photographs of the letters they wrote in
her behalf.
And using the photographs, Maria then would copy them so as to write her own letters.
This helped Maria to start developing writing skills.
She now writes her own letters.
If you could see the letters that she writes, what a neat handwriting she's learned to have
and how well she expresses herself, obviously she's had Jehovah's blessing.
But it's certainly an encouragement to all of us to try to continue to improve.
What a beautiful way to use our time during the pandemic.
But let's not even for a minute.
Make that literacy is an issue in only a few parts of the world, really.
Literacy is an issue everywhere.
And if we're being honest with ourselves, probably most of us would say that we could improve
in our reading and writing.
So why not make the effort to do so?
What would the governing body say in a recent letter to all branch committees?
We want our brothers and sisters to progress spiritually and grow to maturity.
In large measure, this requires that they be able to read and study God's Word along
with our publications.
Many of the ways in which we serve God involve the ability to read, for example, all
Christians have the weighty responsibility of teaching vital truths to others.
And appointed men have many responsibilities that involve reading.
In general, Christians should be able to read.
So how could we learn to read or improve in our reading?
Here are two ways.
Take a friend, a family member, or someone in your congregation to help you.
An excellent tool to assist is the apply yourself to reading and writing brochure.
It is available in 123 languages.
Why not ask your congregation elders about how to obtain this brochure?
If you already know the alphabet and you can recognize words, audio recordings of our
literature may also help.
As you listen to the recording, read along in the written publication.
Work to imitate the pronunciation as you hear each word.
Improving our reading and writing is a great way to use our time during the pandemic.
You brothers and sisters have shown that you can thrive spiritually and build others up
during a time of adversity.
You have made good use of your time.
May all of us continue to do so by assisting in active ones and by improving our reading
skills.
Be assured that the governing body keeps all of you in our prayers.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.